Almost 8.5-million litres of fuel valued at about R102m were stolen from transnational Transnet pipes in the past year. The national head of the Directorate for Priority Crime Investigation (DPCI, or Hawks),  Lt-Gen Godfrey Lebeya said this led to the arrest of 49 suspects in the third quarter. “This brings the total number of arrests to 210 suspects since December 2019 when the crime was classified as a matter requiring the attention of the DPCI,” he said. Lebeya said they have secured the convictions of  10 accused. He provided an update on Friday, outlining and taking stock of milestones achieved since the previous quarter. The DPCI  arrested at least 803 suspects  who were successfully secured before courts across the country in the third quarter. Lebeya said 229 accused people were convicted and sentenced, and of these  12 are sharing 17 life term imprisonment sentences. “These arrests maintain the number of accused people on court rolls to more than 11,673. A total of 1,936 cases that are under investigation have reached a decision stage and the teams from the DPCI and  National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) are assessing them,” he said. In his update, Lebeya  highlighted only 32 cases which represent 3% of the 1,032 successes. Highlighting cases involving fuel theft, Lebeya said  alleged kingpin Fana Nimrod Malambe, a Mozambican national, Mauro Aurelia Langa and Solly Khoza were arrested on  October 16 and 19 2022 for their alleged involvement in a syndicate linked to fuel theft from transnational pipelines and damage to essential infrastructure in Vrede, Free State. He said the arrests were made when the suspects were delivering the stolen cargo in Kromdraai, Witbank. “A tanker with fuel which was involved in the incident and five luxury vehicles — a Jeep V8 SUV, Jeep Grand Cherokee SUV, Jeep SRT 8, Mercedes-Benz Viano minibus and Toyota Land Cruiser —  were seized.” The four are expected to appear  in court again on  April 14. Regarding drug-related cases, Lebeya said four clandestine narcotics laboratories were dismantled in the third quarter  and 10 suspects  arrested He said  drugs including  mandrax, cocaine, tik and dagga,  potentially worth more than R23.5m,  were seized. TimesLIVE