Patriotic Alliance (PA) leader and Central Karoo district  mayor Gayton McKenzie says his municipality paid Eskom more than R60m over the past six months. This comes after allegations he misled the public about paying the municipality's bill. “Here is the proof,” said McKenzie. “The first letter I received as a new mayor was from Eskom informing us they would cut the electricity of the town. We tried to make a new arrangement and they said we had  defaulted on our previous arrangements. I assured them  this was a new coalition and new management and we will make good. Eskom reluctantly agreed.” According to records posted by McKenzie, the municipality starting paying its debt  on June 3 with a R1.1m payment.  On July 8 it apparently made two payments of  R1.1m and just over R6.3m. It  paid  R1.1m  on July 1. On August 3, the municipality made two payments of  nearly R9.3m and R1.1m. On September 1  it made two payments of R10.1m and R1.1m, and  on October 5, it paid  nearly R10.3m. On November 1 and 3 the municipality paid  R6.5m and  R6.1m respectively. The last payment for R6.4m was made  on January 3. “We still paid salaries and maintained other creditors that are key, like water affairs which we pay R500,000 a month. We have paid Eskom  R60,625,951 in six months. We paid more than R10m a month,” said McKenzie. The mayor thanked the coalition of his political party, the ANC, Karoo Democratic Force (KDF) and Karoo Gemeenskap Party (KGP) for the record-breaking milestones. “I want thank the PA, ANC, KDF and KGP coalition. I don’t say there is any municipality that paid percentagewise what we have paid. I want to thank the residents and our staff, particularly the CFO and municipal manager. Well done mayor and councillors,” he said. This is not the first time McKenzie has disclosed financial information pertaining to the municipality. Last year McKenzie rubbished the SACP's claim that he did not pledge 100% of his salary to fixing the municipality, disclosing an alleged  payslip and payment records. “ I have not taken the standard mayoral car, I have not claimed for any standard expenses [and] I have not claimed for the standard security detail  all other mayors take. Despite this I have been falsely accused, so for the sake of transparency here is my payslip and records,” he wrote.