President Cyril Ramaphosa has hit back at criticism that his decision not to attend the World Economic Forum (WEF) in Davos to instead deal with the energy crisis amounted to nothing. “I see today in some newspapers they say  all  the consultations  have amounted to nothing, but they have amounted to a lot,” Ramaphosa said on Sunday. He was addressing the closing session of the ninth Free State ANC  elective conference at  Imvelo Safari Lodge in Mangaung. The Sunday Times reported  Ramaphosa spent last week in crisis meetings that failed to come up with  short-term plans to relieve South Africans of crippling load-shedding. Those who attended said  government’s latest briefings were nothing more than an update on Ramaphosa’s turnaround plan announced last July. The plan is set to take at least two years to implement. Adding to frustrations, Eskom confirmed last week  it had not yet hired a firm to recruit a replacement for CEO André de Ruyter, who announced his resignation more than a month ago. The meetings came after Ramaphosa cancelled an important visit to the WEF in the Swiss resort  last Sunday. The National Energy Regulator of South Africa (Nersa) recently  granted  Eskom a tariff increase of 18%, which has South Africans up in arms and political parties seeking court interventions,  from April 1. On Sunday Ramaphosa  said: “Eskom’s historically inadequate maintenance and delayed investment in building new power stations is the main reason why we are where we are. “We have load-shedding, which understandably is making  people  angry and frustrated and is negatively impacting on livelihoods, the health of our people,  food production and the economy. “People are losing their businesses. Many  are reporting  their businesses are failing because of load-shedding.” He said the problems  started  in 1998 when  government was told by Eskom  it needed to add capacity to the grid and “that was neglected”. “In the course of time maintenance was stopped at our power stations. “The  stations were driven hard, so hard that it is almost like your vehicle. If you have a vehicle and you don’t send it for services and maintain it, it will break at some point and this is exactly where we are. “Our grid capacity is short of 6,000 megawatts and we have been working very hard. We have put in place an energy plan, which I announced last  July, and the process of adding more capacity with the measures, be it renewable energy and even emergency energy, is underway. “I said as early as 2019 that we need to embark on emergency power.  The process was started  but was interrupted by court challenges because it was felt  it was flawed and there  challenges,  and that is  trapped in legal processes. “But  we have  been making a great deal of progress in unblocking the  regulations. Processes  have been put in place so  we can remove all  the lock jams so  power can be brought onto the grid.” Unfortunately, he said, “building power stations and adding more capacity takes time”. “ We have been busy with two power stations, Medupi and Kusile, and we started building them in a  hurry after we  lost time from 1998. “When we finally woke up to the reality that the increased population and  growing economy  was going to require more energy, we had really out of time and  engineers  who were supposed to manage everything internally. “In the end we have had to pay almost double for  the two mega power stations  we built. There are design flaws and that is why  stations  have run into difficulties.” Ramaphosa said a combination of a number of things have brought South Africa to where it is now. “We  reached a point where we got to stage 6 load-shedding and that is what made our people frustrated, and I understand that. “We are  ensuring  there is sufficient diesel  for Gourikwa and Ankerlig power stations   so megawatts can be brought onto the system while those  stations  taken out for maintenance and repairs are brought back one by one. “We are also  beginning to purchase power from countries that have more energy and megawatts.  We  also gone to companies that have installed more capacity to bring that in.” He said government was  cutting red tape  hampering it from implementing critical measures to end load-shedding. “There’s been a lot of red tape in the system and we are  bringing in experts and engineers who had either left Eskom or are scattered all over. We have made a call  they should come back to assist. “We are going ahead with restructuring Eskom so  we can reposition it. “Of course we are all frustrated and  we receive a further  blow from Nersa  to increase  tariffs by 18%, which adds to the frustrations.” He said his government has listened to its citizens. “I have been spending a lot of time meeting with  role players, including trade unions, business, religious leaders and community-based organisations, and all  have come forward with  good suggestions. “ For instance,  social groups have said: ‘President, let’s have solar panels all over the country. Let us install those.’  Treasury has been finalising  how we can have solar panels installed and how  people can be supported to have the  panels. “We have been talking to  people also about  tariffs and we are looking into this issue.  I have personally said to Eskom: ‘It would be an injury to our people if we implement the 18% increase when we are going through load-shedding. Suspend it for now. The Eskom board is going to discuss that.  The tariff was decided  by an independent agency  at the request of Eskom because Eskom needs  to finances to generate  the power  we all need. “We recognise and see the hardships  our people are going through. We are alive to those hardships and we are doing everything we can to resolve this. There will be a number of initiatives  we embark on that we will talk about in time.” He said  role players  also made  suggestions with regard to  municipal debt. “Our municipalities owe Eskom almost R65bn. This is the R65bn  Eskom needs to continue generating energy and they have come up  proposals  so we can  solve this problem solved and  encourage our people to pay.” He said the challenges  South Africans face are challenges  government is facing. TimesLIVE