North Korea launched a long-range ballistic missile into the sea off its east coast on Saturday after Pyongyang warned of a strong response to upcoming US-South Korea military drills. Japanese authorities said  the missile splashed down in waters inside Japan's exclusive economic zone more than an hour after it was launched, suggesting the weapon was one of the North's largest missiles. North Korea's first missile firing since January 1  came after Pyongyang threatened on Friday an “unprecedentedly persistent, strong” response as South Korea and the US gear up for annual military exercises as part of efforts to fend off the North's growing nuclear and missile threats. Nuclear-armed North Korea fired an unprecedented number of missiles last year, including intercontinental ballistic missiles (ICBMs) that could strike anywhere in the US, while resuming preparations for its first nuclear test since 2017. Saturday's missile was launched from the Sunan area near Pyongyang, South Korea's military said. Sunan is the site of the Pyongyang International Airport, where North Korea has conducted most of its recent ICBM tests. North Korea's ballistic missile and nuclear weapons programmes are banned under UN Security Council resolutions but Pyongyang says its weapons development is necessary to counter “hostile policies” by Washington and its allies. Allied nuclear drills, called the Deterrence Strategy Committee Tabletop Exercise, are scheduled for Wednesday at the Pentagon and will involve senior defence policymakers from both sides, Seoul's defence ministry said. The two countries are also planning a range of expanded field exercises, including live fire drills, in coming weeks and months. About 28,500 US troops are stationed in South Korea as a legacy of the 1950-1953 Korean War, which ended in an armistice rather than a full peace treaty, leaving the parties technically still at war. Pyongyang may have created a military unit tasked with operating new ICBMs, in line with its recent restructuring of the military, state media video footage from a February 9 parade suggested. That parade displayed more ICBMs than ever before, including a possible new solid-fuel weapon which could help the North deploy its missiles faster in the event of a war. Reuters