The  assassination of rapper AKA and  President Cyril Ramaphosa's state of the nation address (Sona)  were on the agenda  at a cabinet meeting  on Wednesday. Briefing  media in Cape Town on Thursday, minister in the presidency Mondli Gungubele  said the cabinet welcomed Ramaphosa’s seventh Sona  and expressed condolences to the families who  lost loved ones in the recent  floods  in several parts of the country. “Cabinet expressed  condolences to the family and friends of hip-hop artist Kiernan Forbes, popularly known as AKA, and celebrity chef Tebello Motsoane, who were recently gunned down in Durban. “Cabinet also expressed  sympathy to the family and friends of anti-crime activist Ayob Mungalee, who was  shot dead  in Eldorado Park in Johannesburg. He was the national director of  People Seeking Justice Action Group, a movement which mobilised community members to take a stand against gangsterism and drug dealing. “Cabinet expressed condolences to the families and friends of those killed in recent mass shootings in the Western Cape, KwaZulu-Natal and the Eastern Cape. These heinous and cold-blooded attacks highlight the prevalence of gun violence and its impact on communities.” The cabinet also expressed concern about road safety and increasing violence in schools. On the appointment of the SABC board, Gungubele said: “We will leave that to the president and hope at the right time he will take a decision.” Gungubele said Ramaphosa would make an announcement on a cabinet reshuffle when he was ready to do so. It has been reported that the president is likely to restructure his cabinet after the budget speech on February 22. Turning to the load-shedding national state of disaster, he said: “Our immediate concern  is  we must maintain load-shedding stages at a low level.” Gungubele said he was confident  the state of disaster  would help end load-shedding. “It’s going to assist in making sure  we are allowed to execute speedily more onerous processes, yet within the law, and that is why the president has also called [for] the real-time audit by the office of the auditor-general.” Regarding the appointment of the electricity minister, Gungubele said Ramaphosa will make the announcement “when he is ready”. He conceded  the government had failed to protect  citizens from crime. “We accept  we are failing on crime and we are not doing well. But  we have reinforced the  National Prosecuting Authority, the justice system,  and the police.” TimesLIVE