Police minister Bheki Cele has cleared the air on why he did not visit the scene of Kiernan “AKA” Forbes’ murder, saying there was no need for him to go because he has been in contact with the rapper's family. AKA and his lifelong friend and celebrity chef Tebello “Tibz” Motsoane were shot dead at a popular restaurant in Durban’s Florida Road on February 10. They were both buried in private funerals at the weekend. Speaking during the presentation of the quarterly crime stats, Cele said he was on the phone with KwaZulu-Natal  police commissioner  Lt-Gen Nhlanhla Mkhwanazi on the night of the murder. “We don’t really go for cameras. There are many places where we go without cameras. Mostly where we go we are  invited by communities. “There was no need  to go to this one because when we received the information at 11pm, we were  on the phone with the provincial commissioner  talking about the team  he put together, led by Brig [Vela] Cele, one of the best we have. He is one of the top investigators.” Cele is the top cop who put  Uyinene Mrwetyana’s killer in jail. The minister said he spoke to AKA’s father and received a “beautiful” message thanking him. “The next morning, I was phoned by the family, requesting a few things to be done. I was on the phone with the family until 6pm Saturday when the post-mortem was finished. On Sunday, I spoke at length with  AKA’s father. “Why would I have to go to the crime scene when we have taken on board the family and they are very  satisfied?” Providing an update on the  case, Mkhwanazi said details can only be addressed with the family. He said a few people have been interviewed. “ South Africans  know we can’t discuss in detail  cases  we are investigating, especially because the only people who are supposed to get feedback are the families of the deceased. We can’t  tell them through the media what is happening with our investigations. “We have not arrested anyone yet. We have, however, interviewed a number of people in KwaZulu-Natal and Gauteng,” said Mkhwanazi. He said the investigation was ongoing. “We have obtained statements and we have collected cellphones. We have collected  videos from  CCTV cameras  and we have received the ballistic report from forensics,” said Mkhwanazi. “Viewing of the videos is continuing, and the downloading of  cellphones and the analysis of  material  are continuing. We are  putting  evidence together  to have a solid case. “The identification of those  seen on videos  on social media is something that we cannot disclose, but we have  an idea  who those people might be.”