Police minister Bheki Cele says  the DNA backlog has almost  been cleared. The backlog  of more than 241,000 had been reduced to 1,600. “This is a 99.3% reduction in the country’s DNA backlog figures,” Cele said at the release of  crime statistics for the third quarter of the 2022/2023 financial year on Friday. The building and capacitation of a forensic laboratory in Gqeberha in the Eastern Cape had been completed and would  relieve pressure  on the Western Cape laboratory. “As of today [Friday], the SAPS and  National Prosecuting Authority project has resulted in 25,599 prioritised  gender-based violence and femicide [GBVF] related court-ready cases which have been successfully enrolled.” Cele said the Criminal Law (Forensic Procedures) Amendment Act, also referred to as the DNA Act, will come into  effect on  March 3. The act was a crucial weapon in  the fight against GBVF, specifically  in the identification of offenders. “This legislation will remove serial rapists from our streets,” Cele said. From October to December 2022, 4,992 suspects were arrested for GBVF-related crimes. “During the same period, 71 accused were handed  89 life sentences. 219  were sentenced [to] from one  to  nine years' imprisonment,  and 143  were sentenced [to] between  10  and 19 years' imprisonment.” Discussions  were under way within the security cluster to “tighten the gaps and loopholes” in the criminal justice system. “This includes the bail regime and the role parolees and ex-offenders are playing in the  safety of citizens. We all agree  punishment should fit the crime and the justice system and law enforcement should collaborate better.” South Africa's “porous borders”, which directly affect  policing, were also receiving attention. More than  13,000  illegal  immigrants were arrested, he said. “The SAPS management and this ministry have also had promising engagements with our counterparts from Lesotho and Mozambique  about cross-border crimes and intensifying our collaboration on policing interventions.” TimesLIVE